‘Propositions individuate contents.’
The title is difficult to
understand, but it will
make sense by the end.
I was saying before that we can
think of mental states as having
three main components. There's a
subject and attitude and a
content. Let's focus on
the content.
One of the things that you and I
do all the time. Is
distinguished mental states
by their contents.
So for example, you might say I
should desires that I drive her.
Not that you driver.
She seen how bad my driving is.
Sensible. Now in saying this, of
course you're distinguishing
between a desire that I should
does have. That you drive her
and a desire that Asia does not
have. But I drive her so you're
distinguishing between contents
of mental states.
I might say to you.
Lois knows that Superman can
fly. But she doesn't know that
Clark can fly.
Distinguishing between two
contents. Very simple, now we
can ask the question.
What is it that can distinguish
between the contents of mental
states? What kind of thing is
that? At a very natural answer
to suggest initially I think.
Is a sentence?
After all. When you say I should
desires that. By driver.
You're using a sentence in
order to distinguish the
mental state, so perhaps it's
the sentence that
distinguishes the mental state
while hold on that was a bit
quick.
It's always good to illustrate
things with the true story, so
here's a true story story about
my life. I know that I said at
the beginning. I don't open up
very much in these lectures.
I'm finding that quite
difficult. Apparently I'm
supposed to.
So. What I want to tell you a
true story. For example true,
sorry, just a tiny bit side.
It's on the screen. Someone ate
my breakfast. That's the true
story. Now you might go away and
you might be fascinated by this
new knowledge of your lecturer.
I'm sure it's pretty
fascinating, so you might say.
Steve thinks someone ate his
breakfast, so you will somehow
conveying a thought that I have.
Once again, you're
distinguishing content of a
mental state where identifying
the content of the state that I
had, the thinking that I had.
Yep.
It is perfectly true that
someone ate my breakfast. But
today that person was me. It was
me that have my breakfast.
So what I said was true, but
of course it misled you.
When you use that sentence,
which I uttered perfectly
truthfully, Europe, also
misleading yourself and
misleading any others. Now this
should give us a moment of doubt
about the role of sentences.
But that's just one
illustration. Let's look at
sentences more carefully here.
Kind of useful to have a sense
of what sentence is are like. A
lot of people don't know this,
even though it's all.
Not very, not supposed to
be very complicated or
arcane matters. Things done
in a way out.
Almost too trivial to take
notice of a lot of the time, but
they matter for us. Sentences
have features which make them
unsuitable for distinguishing
the contents of mental states.
I might tell you it's raining.
Now you can't show that I'm
wrong by looking out of the
window after when I say it's
raining. When I use that
sentence.
I'm using it at one time in one
place and you are surely in a
different time and different. I
mean, yeah, you are definitely
a different time in a different
place, right? If this was a
live lecture would be
different, but it's not right.
When I was teaching first year
logic, some of the students
started her. Facebook group
called logic makes me die
inside. Now is very excited
about this, 'cause I'm not
really on Facebook. I've never
really been the subject of a
Facebook group before. I was
very struck. They chose to
call it in. This kind of
Ironic Way 'cause clearly they
were signaling enthusiasm for
the subject of logic. Sure,
you'll be equally
enthusiastic.
Anyway, that sentence logic
makes me die inside contains
this interesting component,
right? So if I were to say that.
Daphne would be true. Logic
is big part of my life, but
if someone else to say that
it might be true is
possible, it's not
logically impossible. So
sentences have what we or
exhibit what we call
indexicality. That's to say
they have components like
me and what the me picks
out varies depending on
who's using the sentence.
What the MI picks out varies on
who's using the sentence, and
generally with these index calls
what they pick out depends on
who's using the sentence, where
they're using it, how they're
using it, and so on.
Second feature sentences is
illustrated by the
assertion. You have to turn
on your head lamps when it's
raining in Sweden.
That's a very puzzling
assertion, right? How do I
know it's raining in Sweden?
Illustration of the ambiguity of
language. Of course, the idea is
that. Yes, please turn on your
head lamps in Sweden when it's
raining this week, but not
anyway. It's better not to
explain these things, isn't
it? Sentences are ambiguous.
That's to say that there are
different quite legitimate
interpretations of sentences.
And. It will not always be the
case that the interpretations
are just all parts of 1.
Thanks.
His 1/3 illustration, sorry.
Here's an illustration of 1/3
feature of sentences. If I say
dogs must be carried, most
people have a pretty clear idea
of what that means, right? So if
you have a dog, you gotta carry
it, but if you haven't got a
dog, it's OK to proceed. You
don't need to go and find a dog
and pick it up and carry it in
order to proceed. By contrast,
if I say shoes must be worn
again, most people have a pretty
good idea about what I mean
here, but in this case you
really do have to get a pair of
shoes and put them on. If you
haven't got a pair of shoes,
you've got to put them on.
But equally this is kind of
confusing. It's OK to carry a
second pair of shoes. It's
absolutely fine as long as
you're wearing one pair of
shoes, you can carry a second
parachutes. But if we go back to
dogs must be carried.
It's not OK if you're carrying a
dog. To wear another dog, right?
You can't wear a dog.
Any dog that you have has to be
carried so these sentences they
look like they have exactly the
same form, but they convey
quite different bits of
information and if you get this
wrong it is embarrassing. Don't
go around wearing dogs.
Ann what this illustrates, just
like the example I started with
someone ate my breakfast, is
that language has lots of
pragmatic features. So a lot of
what the sentence is are doing
for us is not captured in the
words themselves. Alot of what
sentences are doing for it is
not captured in the words
themselves. So here we've got
three very important features of
sentences. Sentence is exhibit
indexicality ambiguity, and they
have pragmatic features.
Why am I interested in that?
Will partly, I just think
it's important that we have
some basic understanding of
sentences.
The other thing is that it means
that senses have properties that
make them just unsuited to
distinguishing mental
states. Sentences are
not true and false.
So for example, you have to
turn your headlights on when
it's raining. In Sweden, you
cannot say that that sentence
is true. It's ambiguous. It's
true when interpreted one way,
false when interpreted another
someone ate my breakfast. Is it
true? Or is it false? That
depends who's saying it right?
It's true in my case it may not
be true in your case, 'cause
you may not have had breakfast.
You may have had a life
entirely without breakfast.
OK, the other thing about
sentences is that they do not
correspond to ways that the
world could be for the same
reason, the ambiguity of the
index County is on the sentence
is not something that picks out
one way the world could be.
There's no correspondence there.
By contrast, the contents of
mental states are things which
can be true or false. So if you
believe that Superman can fly
what you believe is true.
If you desire that I
should drive you and I
should does drive you.
Then, what you desired is true
and so your desire is fulfilled.
Likewise, the contents of
mental states correspond to
ways the world could be in
distinguishing amongst the
contents of mental states,
those that someone does have
and those which she does not.
What we're trying to do, of
course, is to see the world from
her POV, to understand how the
world would have to be if it was
as she took it to be yours, she
wanted it to be, or she intended
to be, and so on. So the
contents of mental states have
to correspond to ways the world
could be what this tells us very
simple conclusion sentence is
are unsuitable for
distinguishing the contents of
mental states. They're just not
the right kind of entities.
So my question is, what kind of
thing could distinguish the
contents of mental states?
The first, always well,
sentences seemed natural.
But on any reasonable view
about features of sentence is
they just have all of the
wrong properties to be the
kind of thing that could
distinguish mental states?
Now, second thought might be to
go for utterances. You might
think, well, OK, maybe it's
not. Sentence is. It's actually
the the utterances of the
sentence. The Act of using a
sentence on a particular
occasion.
This is I think I very smart I
dear. Utterances are not
typically speaking ambiguous in
the way that sentence is are,
for example. However, we come
across a different problem.
You make an utterance that
something that happens on a
particular date and time, and
that utterance is only
available to people who
either know if it by
acquaintance or can somehow
describe it. So utterances
are not particularly portable
things. They're not things
that I can get hold over.
Just reuse and reuse, and
people I've never met before
1000 years later still going
to be able to keep using.
Utterances tend to be somewhat
idiosyncratic to individuals,
and that makes them.
[Steve misspoke; correction coming]
That makes them a poor
choice for individuating the
contents of mental states
for distinguishing. After
all, that would mean if we
used utterances, that would
mean that basically
everybody had their own set
of things to distinguish the
mental states based on their
own particular experience
and knowledge of what had
been uttered. That's not going to work. Very clearly,
that's not going to work. Let's put that aside.
The truth is that
what we're going to use to distinguish the contents of
mental states are propositions.
This is the correct answer. The
problem is that this answer
doesn't really take us very far
at all, because after all we
don't know what propositions
are. So here's a quick summary.
We need propositions to
distinguish the contents of
mental states. But we need
to know what propositions.